README.md, before:

# smart-contract



[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
  
  ###### Check out the badges hosted by [shields.io](https://shields.io/)

 [Deployed Heroku Link](https://smart-contract-latency-2881eb8bf0c3.herokuapp.com/)
  
  ## Description
  **This project features fullstack app meant to measure the latency for calling a simple contract that emit an event which will be listened by our server. Then using the emited time to calculate our latencies writing to the network as well as reading from the contract. The data is then stored in JawsDB and displayed in react with dynamic heights and color.**

  ***

  ## Table of Contents
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Snippets](#snippets)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Author](#author)

  ***

  ## Installation

  ~~***This project is hosted on a heroku eco-dyno, when it is not being actively used it requires a bit extra start up time. This can be mitigated by upgrading to the next tier on heroku.***~~
  
  [Deployed Heroku Link](https://smart-contract-latency-2881eb8bf0c3.herokuapp.com/)

  HardHat Deployment

  Included is hardhat folder for deploying contract to the different testnets:
  
  After `npm install` within this hardhat folder you can run `npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network *networkname*` to deploy to the network that was declared in the setting file.

  Once compelted, we would require manually setting these deployed addresses to call the contract from our server.

  For documentation purposes, here are the current deployed contract address for the following testnets:
  > Eth-sepolia: 0xA1284BF0e4326C2e1AA597EadDc9f081A76Dfa48 | https://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/

  > Poly-amoy: 0xf77CC6fc2df2Ea00deE9bf4cFf26DE673B299b03 | https://polygon-amoy.g.alchemy.com/v2/
  
  > Arbitrum:  0xB134BB71d6DE99dB9C18F87f61bD7313b20670F6 | https://arb-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/
  
  > Base: 0x1B0FD62516d4C71E722E2e695D14cc024bD9F3b3 | https://base-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/

  *Please see [Snippets](#snippets) for a breakdown of the contract.*

  ***
  
  If you would like to host a local version of it yourself, please follow these instructions:

  > ensure your `env` file is set up with 
  > - `DB_NAME`
  > - `DB_PASSWORD`
  > - `DB_USER`
  > - `SECRET`(db secret phrase)
  > - `ALCHEMY_API_KEY`(since we are using the Alchemy RPCs)
  > - `SECRET_KEY`(the wallet we want to use to interact with our contract).

  > to install both the client and server side dependencies: `npm run install` at the project root folder

  > navigate to your SQL CLI, initiate/reset our db instance: `mysql -u -root -p` | `source smart-contract/server/db/schema.sql`

  > start the server to sync our table: `npm start`

  > adding initial network seed data: `npm run seed`

  > to concurrently start server and client react code w/ hotreload: `npm run develop`

  ***
  ## Usage

  React features

  > **Write and Read latencies on seperate tabs**
  >
  > ![gif0](/client/src/assets/tab.gif)

  > **Dynamic status bar and color**
  >
  > ![gif1](/client/src/assets/dynamic.gif)

  > **Status Focus on hover/click**
  >
  > ![gif2](/client/src/assets/focus.gif)
  
  
  ***
  ## Snippets
  > **To call our smart contract, we need the Contract ABI artifact generated by our hardhat, and config,so ether.js can help us set up our listeners and interactivity**
  > 
  > ![snip1](/client/src/assets/config.png)
  > ![snip0](/client/src/assets/ABI.png)

  > **Listener set up**
  > 
  > For each network, we set up our lisener using `contract.on` after
  >
  > ![snip2](/client/src/assets/setup.png)
  > ![snip3](/client/src/assets/listener.png)
  >
  > we then set up a cron schedule to call our contract every 30 minutes
  >
  > ![snip4](/client/src/assets/cron.png)

  > **Variable gasPrice, ensuring Polygon transaction can goes through**
  > 
  > ![snip5](/client/src/assets/error.png)
  > ![snip6](/client/src/assets/varPrice.png)

  > **Read Latencies after event**
  >
  > once the `checkLatnecy` function has been called, the current block time that the call was mined will be saved by our contract for our read latencies
  >
  > ![snip7](/client/src/assets/write.png)
  >
  > and once we received the called event on our server end, it will initiate a second call for the `readLatency` function that retreive the calculated latencies between the original write block as our `startTime` for our read latencies, and calculate the difference between the stored time vs the current block time.
  >
  > ![snip7](/client/src/assets/read.png)



  ***
  ## License

  
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

  ***
  ## Author
  *Mari Ma*

  [<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dbjhly3lm/image/upload//h_50/v1682488301/personal%20assets/logo_github_icon_143196_phgakv.png" alt='github' >](https://github.com/DraconMarius)
  [<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dbjhly3lm/image/upload/h_50/v1682488301/personal%20assets/logo_linkedin_icon_143191_nv9tim.png" alt='linkedin'>](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mari-ma-70771585/)

[Icon credit @ Anton Kalashnyk](https://icon-icons.com/users/14quJ7FM9cYdQZHidnZoM/icon-sets/)

  ***
  ## Questions
  For any questions, please reach out directly or by creating an issue.

Commit message:

added env var set up on heroku instruction

README.md, after:

# smart-contract



[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
  
  ###### Check out the badges hosted by [shields.io](https://shields.io/)

 [Deployed Heroku Link](https://smart-contract-latency-2881eb8bf0c3.herokuapp.com/)
  
  ## Description
  **This project features fullstack app meant to measure the latency for calling a simple contract that emit an event which will be listened by our server. Then using the emited time to calculate our latencies writing to the network as well as reading from the contract. The data is then stored in JawsDB and displayed in react with dynamic heights and color.**

  ***

  ## Table of Contents
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Snippets](#snippets)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Author](#author)

  ***

  ## Installation

  ~~***This project is hosted on a heroku eco-dyno, when it is not being actively used it requires a bit extra start up time. This can be mitigated by upgrading to the next tier on heroku.***~~
  
  [Deployed Heroku Link](https://smart-contract-latency-2881eb8bf0c3.herokuapp.com/)

  HardHat Deployment

  Included is hardhat folder for deploying contract to the different testnets:
  
  After `npm install` within this hardhat folder you can run `npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network *networkname*` to deploy to the network that was declared in the setting file.

  Once compelted, we would require manually setting these deployed addresses to call the contract from our server.

  For documentation purposes, here are the current deployed contract address for the following testnets:
  > Eth-sepolia: 0xA1284BF0e4326C2e1AA597EadDc9f081A76Dfa48 | https://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/

  > Poly-amoy: 0xf77CC6fc2df2Ea00deE9bf4cFf26DE673B299b03 | https://polygon-amoy.g.alchemy.com/v2/
  
  > Arbitrum:  0xB134BB71d6DE99dB9C18F87f61bD7313b20670F6 | https://arb-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/
  
  > Base: 0x1B0FD62516d4C71E722E2e695D14cc024bD9F3b3 | https://base-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/

  *Please see [Snippets](#snippets) for a breakdown of the contract.*

  ***
  
  If you would like to host a local version of it yourself, please follow these instructions:

  > ensure your `env` file is set up with 
  > - `DB_NAME`
  > - `DB_PASSWORD`
  > - `DB_USER`
  > - `SECRET`(db secret phrase)
  > - `ALCHEMY_API_KEY`(since we are using the Alchemy RPCs)
  > - `SECRET_KEY`(the wallet we want to use to interact with our contract).

  > to install both the client and server side dependencies: `npm run install` at the project root folder

  > navigate to your SQL CLI, initiate/reset our db instance: `mysql -u -root -p` | `source smart-contract/server/db/schema.sql`

  > start the server to sync our table: `npm start`

  > adding initial network seed data: `npm run seed`

  > to concurrently start server and client react code w/ hotreload: `npm run develop`

  ***This deployed project currently uses a wallet address's secret key set in the .env. (this will be the address where the testnet tokens are from) If hosting a standalone instance, please ensure both Alchemy API key, secret keys, and other variables are availble in .env***

  > **If you would like to host a heroku version of it privately**, make sure you have heroku CLI installed, and at the root of the project run `heroku create app_name`. After we confirmed that it has been deployed. Navigate to your heroku project page and ensure that all of your env var is set.
  >
  > ![envvar](/client/src/assets/envvar.png)
  >
  > *Some of those variable (such as DB_NAME, USER, PASSWORD, JAWSDB_URL) would be accessible after you connect jawsDB as an add on (free tier).*

  ***
  ## Usage

  React features

  > **Write and Read latencies on seperate tabs**
  >
  > ![gif0](/client/src/assets/tab.gif)

  > **Dynamic status bar and color**
  >
  > ![gif1](/client/src/assets/dynamic.gif)

  > **Status Focus on hover/click**
  >
  > ![gif2](/client/src/assets/focus.gif)
  
  
  ***
  ## Snippets
  > **To call our smart contract, we need the Contract ABI artifact generated by our hardhat, and config,so ether.js can help us set up our listeners and interactivity**
  > 
  > ![snip1](/client/src/assets/config.png)
  > ![snip0](/client/src/assets/ABI.png)

  > **Listener set up**
  > 
  > For each network, we set up our lisener using `contract.on` after
  >
  > ![snip2](/client/src/assets/setup.png)
  > ![snip3](/client/src/assets/listener.png)
  >
  > we then set up a cron schedule to call our contract every 30 minutes
  >
  > ![snip4](/client/src/assets/cron.png)

  > **Variable gasPrice, ensuring Polygon transaction can goes through**
  > 
  > ![snip5](/client/src/assets/error.png)
  > ![snip6](/client/src/assets/varPrice.png)

  > **Read Latencies after event**
  >
  > once the `checkLatnecy` function has been called, the current block time that the call was mined will be saved by our contract for our read latencies
  >
  > ![snip7](/client/src/assets/write.png)
  >
  > and once we received the called event on our server end, it will initiate a second call for the `readLatency` function that retreive the calculated latencies between the original write block as our `startTime` for our read latencies, and calculate the difference between the stored time vs the current block time.
  >
  > ![snip7](/client/src/assets/read.png)



  ***
  ## License

  
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

  ***
  ## Author
  *Mari Ma*

  [<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dbjhly3lm/image/upload//h_50/v1682488301/personal%20assets/logo_github_icon_143196_phgakv.png" alt='github' >](https://github.com/DraconMarius)
  [<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dbjhly3lm/image/upload/h_50/v1682488301/personal%20assets/logo_linkedin_icon_143191_nv9tim.png" alt='linkedin'>](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mari-ma-70771585/)

[Icon credit @ Anton Kalashnyk](https://icon-icons.com/users/14quJ7FM9cYdQZHidnZoM/icon-sets/)

  ***
  ## Questions
  For any questions, please reach out directly or by creating an issue.
